Feat/tutorial updates (#16)
runwayml/docs: docs/getting-started/model-101.md

# Models 101

At the core of Runway, we have machine learning models. But what do mean by the term model and how do we use a model? Here we discuss what a model is and why we need it within Runway.

## What is a Model? How is a Model Created?

> We use the term model as a high level representation of AI logic.  Models contains a series parameters and soft rules that can be both decided by both humans and machine intelligence. For example, a model may itself learn how to recognize a face in a video or image. A researcher has given the model, images containing faces and over time, the model has learned what a face looks like. This is an example of a form of recognition. We often take recognition for granted, as we learned how to recognize people and inanimate objects as we learned as a child. But imagine how tricky it is for a computer to learn and recognize!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use the term model as a high-level representation of AI logic.  Models contain a series of parameters and soft rules that can be both decided by both humans and machine intelligence. For example, a model may itself learn how to recognize a face in a video or image. A researcher has given the model, images containing faces and over time, the model has learned what a face looks like. This is an example of a form of recognition. We often take recognition for granted, as we learned how to recognize people and inanimate objects as we learned as a child. But imagine how tricky it is for a computer to learn and recognize!
```

### Types of Models

- **Extract** - can extract information from some form of input. For example, facial tracking allows us to extract if a face exists in an image.
- **Generate** - is where a model learns from its input to try and generate new. For example, if as a child we are only taught about the artist [Picasso](https://www.pablopicasso.org/), then will our art style be that of Picasso's? If we show a model all of Picasso's work, that is the only art style it knows. So a generative model will try to create new work based on Picasso's style.
- **Transform** - a model transforms the input that is given to it. For example. If we apply stylisation to an image, so it looks like it's been painted by Vincent van Gogh.

### ML Models in the world

Now you know more about Models, what can models do? People have trained and built models for many different purposes. Below are some of the models we have detected:

* Recognition: emotions, objects, people body positions, hot-dogs, spam and sounds
* Generate: photorealistic faces, captions, streets, facades, voices and videos of airplanes morphing into cats
* Detect: models to detect cancer, malaria and HIV

> 

Reviewer: Maybe it'd be more clear if this section used the same categories with the ones above? Recognition seems to be very similar to detection here.

Some trained models are ethically dubious and raise important questions about the social impact of algorithms and biases in our society such as models used to screen job applicants or predict crime. People build models in different programming languages, with different frameworks and for different purposes.

## Where to find models?

On Runway, you can easily browse different types of models and search according to your needs. Please check out our guide on [browsing models on Runway](how-to/browse-model-directory).

## Staff Picks: top models to try

> Currently on Runway we provided a short list of the teams favorite models to get started with! Below are some recommendations, or checkout our tutorial on [browsing models on Runway](how-to/browse-model-directory).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently on Runway we provided a short list of the team's favorite models to get started with! Below are some recommendations, or checkout our tutorial on [browsing models on Runway](how-to/browse-model-directory).
```

# Models 101

> At the core of Runway, we have models. But what exactly is a model and how does it work? Here we discuss what a model is and why we need it within the Runway App.

Reviewer 2: These first two sentences read a bit awkward to me, at least on the first pass through.

## What is a Model? How is a Model Created?

> We use the term model, as a high level representation of AI logic.  The model itself, contains a set of series and rules, that can be both decided and determined by humans and machine intelligence. For example, a model may itself learn how to recognise a face in a video or image. A researcher has given the model, images containing faces and over time, the model has learned what a face looks like. This is an example of a form of recognition. We often take recognition for granted, as we learnt how to recognise people and inanimate objects as we learned as a child. But imagine how tricky it is for a computer to learn and recognise!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We use the term model as a high level representation of AI logic.  Models contains a series parameters and soft rules that can be both decided by both humans and machine intelligence. For example, a model may itself learn how to recognize a face in a video or image. A researcher has given the model, images containing faces and over time, the model has learned what a face looks like. This is an example of a form of recognition. We often take recognition for granted, as we learned how to recognize people and inanimate objects as we learned as a child. But imagine how tricky it is for a computer to learn and recognize!
```

> We use the term model, as a high level representation of AI logic.  The model itself, contains a set of series and rules, that can be both decided and determined by humans and machine intelligence. For example, a model may itself learn how to recognise a face in a video or image. A researcher has given the model, images containing faces and over time, the model has learned what a face looks like. This is an example of a form of recognition. We often take recognition for granted, as we learnt how to recognise people and inanimate objects as we learned as a child. But imagine how tricky it is for a computer to learn and recognise!

Reviewer 2: I'm somewhat hesitant to define a model as containing `a series of rules`, as ML in general sort of pushing back against this idea.

> When the researcher feeds the model by giving it some data such as images, text, video, this is what we call *training data*. When it's finished learning, the researcher then *tests* the model, to see if it's been able to learn. We see if the model has learned the data from if it's output is relevant, For example. can it recognise a face now it's seen so many images of faces?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the researcher feeds the model by giving it some data such as images, text, video, this is what we call *training data*. When it's finished learning, the researcher then *tests* the model, to see if it's been able to learn. We see if the model has learned the data if its output is relevant. For example, can it recognize a face now that it's seen so many images of faces?
```
